I had a request to squeeze in yet another talk! Matthi & Agustin are
presenting talks at the same conference, so we'll let them dry-run
them both tomorrow.

Austin will start at the usual time of 11:00, and Matthi begins at
11:30 instead.

--

This week we have not one, but two fp talks :)! As already announced,
James Koppel is giving a talk on Wednesday (please see previous
announcement, I will send out a reminder tomorrow). On Friday (the
normal slot), Matthi will give us a dry-run of a conference
presentation he will give.

On Friday the 14th of April, we have a talk by Matthías Páll
Gissurarson at 11:15-12:15, in Analysen. Please note the time,
11:15-12:15, instead of 11-12. 

--

Abstract:

Following up on Jimmy's talk, I'll present a dry-run of my ICST talk
on Spectacular, a new tool for automatically discovering candidate
laws for use in property-based testing. By using the
recently-developed technique of ECTAs (Equality-Constrained Tree
Automata), Spectacular improves upon previous approaches such as
QuickSpec: it can explore vastly larger program spaces and start
generating candidate laws within 20 seconds from a benchmark where
QuickSpec runs for ~45 minutes and then crashes (due to memory limits,
even on a 256 GB machine). Thanks to the ability of ECTAs to
efficiently search constrained program spaces, Spectacular is fast
enough to find candidate laws in more generally typed settings than
the monomorphized one, even for signatures with dozens of functions.
